Add Koji docs (#1415)
theforeman/foreman-infra: docs/koji.md

# Koji

[Koji](https://pagure.io/koji/) is an RPM build and tracking system. The Foreman project Koji instance lives at [Foreman Koji](http://koji.katello.org/koji/).

## Koji Instance

The Koji instance is running in AWS EC2 (us-east-1).

>   * i3.xlarge instance (4 CPUs, 32 GB RAM, 900 GB SSD NVMe).

Reviewer: Should this be formated similar to what we did in https://github.com/theforeman/foreman-infra/pull/1421?

  * Running CentOS 7 from EBS volume (8 GB)

### Volumes and mounts

The instance has two EBS volumes attached:

> * /dev/sda1 - root
> * /dev/sdx - data volume (/mnt/koji available as /dev/xvdx1)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* /dev/xvda1 - root
* /dev/xvdx1 - /mnt/koji (1TB)
* /dev/nvme0n1 - swap and /mnt/tmp
```

Why do we have 370G swap on nvme again?

Local postfix instance is not configured for relaying so it delivers directly, which can be problem for some freemails/gmail. But it works just fine with redhat.com SMTP server, check delivery first with sendmail if configuring new email.

### Adding external repository

Edit /etc/mrepo.conf and add required entry. Warning: If you delete any repository from here, mrepo will delete all packages from disk and resyncing can take a while. Do not run mrepo with dry-run option as it does perform the changes.

Then run this script in a screen session (takes several hours depending on content) which will resync ALL external repositories. Inform packagers about fresh content which may break future builds as we do not run sync regularly.

```bash
mrepo -ug -f -v <repo_label_from_mrepo_config>
```

Verify that repodata was regenerated for external repos:

```
find /mnt/koji/external-repos/ -name repomd.xml
```

Finally, add external repositories to koji database.

For repos to be used with the main koji builder:

> ```bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```console
```

# Koji

[Koji](https://pagure.io/koji/) is an RPM build and tracking system. The Foreman project Koji instancne lives at [Foreman Koji](http://koji.katello.org/koji/).

>  * Using Koji as a user

Author: This will turn into a table of contents once the structure is settled

>  * Using Koji as a user

Reviewer 2: I'd prefer to use some proper documentation tool that automatically generates it. We can use sphinx in combination with readthedocs.io. We already use it for obal @ https://obal.readthedocs.io/en/latest/. While we use .rst there, it can use .md as well. When using .rst you can also include content from other files if desired, which can allow us to reuse the Puppet code as documentation.

## Koji Instance

The Koji instance is running in AWS EC2 (us-east-1).

  * i3.xlarge instance (4 CPUs, 32 GB RAM, 900 GB SSD NVMe).
  * Running CentOS 7 from EBS volume (8 GB)

### Volumes and mounts

The instance has two EBS volumes attached:

* /dev/sda1 - root
* /dev/sdx - data volume (/mnt/koji available as /dev/xvdx1)

Root EBS volume is mounted via UUID in fstab:

<pre>
UUID=29342a0b-e20f-4676-9ecf-dfdf02ef6683 / xfs defaults 0 0
</pre>

Note that other volumes are not present in fstab, this is to prevent booting into emergency mode when the VM is respinned on a different hypervisor with different or empty ephemeral or EBS storage configuration. All the rest is mounted in /etc/rc.local:

<pre>
swapon /dev/nvme0n1p1
mount /dev/nvme0n1p2 /mnt/tmp -o defaults,noatime,nodiratime
mount /dev/xvdx1 /mnt/koji -o defaults,noatime,nodiratime
hostnamectl set-hostname koji.katello.org
systemctl restart pmcd pmlogger pmwebd
mount | grep /mnt/koji && systemctl restart rsyncd

> mount | grep /mnt/koji && systemctl start postgresql

Reviewer 3: I'm pretty sure the rc.local script initially predated systemd

> mount | grep /mnt/koji && systemctl start postgresql

Reviewer: I think we should re-visit this whole section, but not right now (unless the docs don't match the way we have to boot that box *today*)

systemctl start httpd
mount | grep /mnt/koji && mount | grep /mnt/tmp && systemctl start kojid

> mount | grep /mnt/koji && mount | grep /mnt/tmp && systemctl start kojira

Author: Old docs are old.

</pre>

> On our current VM flavour there is a local SSD NVMe storage (/dev/nvme0n1) with two partitions created (50/50). The first one is swap and the second one is mounted as /mnt/tmp where koji does all the work. This volume needs to be fast, it grows over the time and contains temporary files (built packages, build logs, support files).

Author: Remember, this doc is to capture where we *are* not what we want to improve (yet). We should capture that list. An issue sounds like as good a place as any. https://github.com/theforeman/foreman-infra/issues/1435

> On our current VM flavour there is a local SSD NVMe storage (/dev/nvme0n1) with two partitions created (50/50). The first one is swap and the second one is mounted as /mnt/tmp where koji does all the work. This volume needs to be fast, it grows over the time and contains temporary files (built packages, build logs, support files).

Reviewer 4: It is because of http://miroslav.suchy.cz/blog/archives/2015/05/28/increase_mock_performance_-_build_packages_in_memory/index.html

### Backups

There is a cron job (/etc/cron.weekly/koji-backup) that performs two actions every week:

Full PostgreSQL database dump into /mnt/koji/backups/postgres.

File system backup of /mnt/tmp (ephemeral storage) into /mnt/koji/backups/ephemeral. This backup skips all files named RPM (these are not needed), duplicity tool is used, no encryption is done. The main purpose of this backup is to store required filesystem structure so koji can be quickly brought up after crash. Since the backup mostly contains directories and build logs, it is not big. To restore that, use:

duplicity restore file:///mnt/koji/backups/ephemeral /mnt/tmp --force --no-encryption

Both backups does not have any rotation and need to be deleted every year. The full backup script looks like:

<pre>
#!/bin/bash
/usr/bin/duplicity --full-if-older-than 1M --no-encryption -vWARNING --exclude '/mnt/tmp/**/*rpm' /mnt/tmp file:///mnt/koji/backups/ephemeral
date=`date +"%Y%m%d"`
filename="/mnt/koji/backups/postgres/koji_${date}.dump"
pg_dump -Fc -f "$filename" -U koji koji
</pre>

### Upgrades

> We are running CentOS 7 with Koji (1.11) installed from EPEL7 and mrepo package installed from Fedora. Since koji was bumped in the EPEL to non-compatible version, we have disabled EPEL7 repository for now.

Reviewer 2: So this is where I am confused. From `/etc/yum.repos.d/epel.repo`
```init
[epel]
name=Extra Packages for Enterprise Linux 7 - $basearch
#baseurl=http://download.fedoraproject.org/pub/epel/7/$basearch
metalink=https://mirrors.fedoraproject.org/metalink?repo=epel-7&arch=$basearch
failovermethod=priority
# DISABLED to delay upgrade to new koji-1.13 or newer
enabled=1
gpgcheck=1
gpgkey=file:///etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-EPEL-7
```

So it's enabled, but has an outdated comment. There's also a `/etc/yum.repos.d/epel.repo.rpmnew` which has an updated metalink.

I've now replaced the old repo file.

```suggestion
We are running CentOS 7 with Koji (1.20) installed from EPEL7 and mrepo installed as an unmanaged standalone file.
```
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> -----END CERTIFICATE-----

Reviewer 3: This is the public side of a server cert for koji to accept it.  In this case, I believe it to be valid to include, as you need _this_ public cert to communicate with the koji server at all.  Further authentication relies upon a client cert that is given to the individual user.

</pre>

### Set up a kkoji alias

Using the "kkoji" section created above in the koji config file, aliasing "kkoji" to the koji binary will cause it to use this section.

    mkdir ~/bin
ln -s /usr/bin/koji ~/bin/kkoji

If you have an old version of the koji client, you may need to use a bash alias instead.  (Symlink approach is preferable as it works with xargs.)

### Login to Koji WebUI

You do not need to be logged to WebUI. But it is useful if you want to cancel or resubmit task. Or set up notifications. Run:

<pre>
openssl pkcs12 -export -inkey ~/.katello.cert -in ~/.katello.cert -CAfile ~/.katello-ca.cert -out katello_browser_cert.p12
</pre>

When prompted for a password, either leave it blank or specify one which is used to secure the output file - you then need to supply it again on import.

And in Firefox do: {{{ Edit -> Preferences -> Advanced -> Encryption -> View Certificates -> Your Certificates -> Import... }}}

### Repos

> Repositories are generated automatically, to manually run it use '''/usr/local/bin/katello-mash-split.py''' on the koji box.

Reviewer 2: This mash script no longer exists
```suggestion
Repositories are generated automatically, to manually run it use `/usr/local/bin/collection-mash-split.py katello` on the koji box.
```

Reviewer: And the script does other mashes now too, so this probably should get an own section?

Oh, and the file is in VCS (`foreman-infra.git/koji/`) but not deployed automatically

Reviewer 2: I've been thinking about running Puppet on koji now that infra maintains it. We can move the script into a Puppet module and ensure its state.

Final repositories can be accessed at http://koji.katello.org/releases/

And can be rsynced using:
<pre>
rsync -alHvr rsync://koji.katello.org/releases /tmp/katello
</pre>

Repos are now regulary (after each mashing) synced by lzap to http://fedorapeople.org/groups/katello/releases/ which is public faced. The cronjob script is:

<pre>
40 7,13,18,21 * * * ssh fedorapeople.org 'cd /project/katello/bin && sh download-repos-from-koji'

> </pre>

Reviewer 2: I think this is now done by Jenkins

Reviewer 3: It would appear so

> If you want to get writte access to fedorahosted.org /project/katello directory, ask Fedora Infrastructure team for ACLs.

Reviewer 2: Let's not encourage this. It should end up on yum.theforeman.org at some point.

Reviewer 3: Agreed.  Access to repo destinations in general shouldn't be a part of this doc, imho.

## Adding new builder to our koji

> Create new AMI from snapshot. It's running RHEL 6.2. Make

Reviewer 2: That looks old.

Reviewer 3: I assume you're talking about 'It's running RHEL 6.2' -> yes, we are on a Centos el7 variant now, "CentOS Linux release 7.7.1908 (Core)"

(rather disable it).

Now you should be ready to start kojid, before that make sure that NFS
volumes are all mounted up (you will need to create the mountpoints):

<pre>
koji.katello.org:/koji on /mnt/koji type nfs
koji.katello.org:/exports/koji/packages on /mnt/koji/packages type nfs
koji.katello.org:/repos on /mnt/koji/repos type nfs
koji.katello.org:/external-repos on /mnt/tmp/external-repos type nfs
</pre>

Start kojid and watch /var/log/kojid.log.

TODO: Use FS-Cache/NFS cache to speed up NFS access: https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-US/Red_Hat_Enterprise_Linux/6/html/Storage_Administration_Guide/fscachenfs.html

## Troubleshooting

### Tasks are note being picked up

Koji builder (kojid) monitors system load and if it exceeds capacity set on koji master (you set it in postgres, defaults to 4) it does not start any tasks. The trick is to set capacity to high nubmer (e.g. 999) and set maxjobs in kojid.conf to amount of CPU cores + 1. Restart kojid and it will start picking things up.

### Tasks are stuck in queue

We use NFS for several directories and NFS can easily get stuck when set to "hard" mode effectively blocking processes forever. Check NFS.

> Beware, SELinux is enforcing so check for denials.

Reviewer 2: This is incorrect

```console
# getenforce 
Permissive
```

Reviewer 3: The best I can recall, it was set to "Permissive" after koji was deleted by accident and recreated, as that was the more expedient route at the time.  We should look at re-enabling selinux for the next iteration of koji.

Reviewer: Then we should document it as being permissive and add "do selinux properly" to the todolist

Reviewer 2: If you update this part to state that it's currently in permissive but enforcing is desired, I think I'm good with this PR.
